All right, type acquisition.
So this is an interesting concept where,
how do we find the right types for
a library?
We already dealt with this in one place,
do you remember?
When we pointed our tests for the chat
standard library that we made, and
we said, I want to use that
specific declaration file.
So we were jumping in at the top
level of type acquisition.
Top level meaning it's the first
place type script looks.
It checks there first and
if it finds types,
that match what it's looking for,
doesn't bother looking anywhere else.
And it's nice and convenient that
there's sort of a very accessible place
like a developer overridable
place where you can just say,
don't look in the node modules folder,
don't look anywhere else,
here's what I want you to use for
this thing.
So if it doesn't find something in
your paths object in your tsconfig,
it'll look at type roots.
So this is another thing that you could
put if you wanted to in your tsconfig.
You could do this, and you could provide
a bunch of different things in here.
Copilot is spoiling my surprise here.
The typeRoot that is in there by default
is in your node modules folder at types,
so it's definitely typed.
And this tells you why we can import
a module like prop types, right?
That's a package that you use with
React sometimes or just React, right?
You might wonder, like, how does
TypeScript find that apt types folder?
Well, it treats it almost like
a root folder here, right?
It treats at types like a root folder,
and then the sub folder within apt types.
That's where it looks for the package name
like React, or React DOM, or jQuery, or
whatever it is.
You could add more
typeRoots if you wanted.
And that would be another place that
TypeScript would look up to try to
acquire the right type declarations
to match a given import.
And this is just for types, right?
This is not where we're
looking like node modules and
node type module resolution, that's
still where we find the code to run.
We're strictly talking about
finding type information.
The next thing down is
explicit module declarations.
So this, This would be like,
in one of your TypeScript files
you have declare a module or
in a declaration file you
have declared module.
This is less common to see although we
looked at an example in the intermediate
TypeScript course,
which I call the type registry pattern,
which involved module declarations.
But that is the third thing here.
And then finally, I mean, this is really
a type root thing, but it'll look for
custom type roots, and then finally it
falls back to the default type root here.
If you want, you can use --traceResolution
when running TSC, and it will tell you.
It'll print like almost debug information,
where it's looking for types and
it didn't find it there.
And so it's moving on to
this next place and like up,
I found something here and
I'm gonna use these types.
This is super helpful in cases
where you're not getting
what you thought you would get.
Like you have an import and
you're wondering,
gosh, I think I have a declaration file
for this, or I thought I downloaded an app
types package for this,
cuz it's kind of a black box, right?
All you see is your imports not working.
You thought you set everything up.
This is super helpful and you can sort of,
I always pipe this to a file, but
you can make sense of the output of
this command, and debug that way.
There's also a prioritization
based on file types.
So, if you have a TS and
a TSX file and a JS file and DTS file,
all with the same file name,
just differing extensions,
the TS file takes precedence over TSX,
which takes precedence over JavaScript and
declaration file.
These would be together, JS and
DTS together, right, a pair.
Kind of like in our dist folder,
we have the index JS, index DTS.
We talked a little bit about
Yarn's TypeScript plugin.
I don't think I need to
talk about this again,
except to say it downloads
the app type packages for you.
>> Would you still separate
declaration files for
internal tools that do
not have to be published?
>> That's a good question.
I'm gonna interpret that two ways,
answer it two ways.
If it were like a CLI,
I might not worry about declaration files,
there's no consumer of that.
But if it's an internal tool,
that has some programmatic API.
If you can consume it as a module,
you can import it into another JS file or
a TS file, I published the types.
Sorry, there's one exception.
Sometimes, like if it's a library that
I'm in the middle of converting from
JavaScript to TypeScript,
I will abstain from publishing types
until I'm happy with the types.
So in those cases I would like to cut
those out of the build before publishing,
because I don't want to publish
types that advertise that,
like you can pass a bunch of
anys into these functions.
I believe that as soon as you
publish a declaration file,
you are stating what the public
API of your library is.
It's the stuff that's gonna be
popping up offering type of heads
autocompletes in a user's editor, and
I would rather provide nothing at all than
provide something that is misleading.